Add tutorials guidelines in the main tutorials branch (#1950)
ansys/pydpf-core: doc/source/getting_started/write_doc/index.rst

.. _ref_write_doc:

=============
Documentation
=============

Overall guidance on contributing to the documentation of a PyAnsys repository appears in
`Documenting <dev_guide_documenting_>`_ in the *PyAnsys Developer's Guide*.

You must also follow the `Documentation style <dev_guide_doc_style_>`_ guide to
ensure that all the documentation looks the same across the project.

To improve the documentation you need to:

- Start by `cloning the repository <Clone the repository>`_;

> - Follow the `guidelines <Guide Lines>`_ to the corresponding documentation part you want to develop;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Follow the `guidelines <Guidelines>`_ to the corresponding documentation part you want to develop;
```

- Check the new documentation by `viewing the documentaion <View the documentation>`_

Clone the repository
--------------------

Clone and install the latest version of PyDPF-Core in
development mode by running this code:

.. code::

    git clone https://github.com/ansys/pydpf-core
    cd pydpf-core
    pip install -e .

Guidelines
----------

> Our documentation tries to follow a structure principle that respects four different functions of the documentation
> that fulfils the possible needs of people working with our tool at different times, in different circumstances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our documentation tries to follow a structure principle that respects four different functions of the documentation.
Each fulfils a different need for people working with our tool at different times, in different circumstances.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Our documentation tries to follow a structure principle that respects four different functions of the documentation.
Each of them fulfills a different need for people working with our tool at different times, in different circumstances.
```

Here is an overview of how our documentation is organized to help you know where you should include your contributions.
Each section has their own guidelines that must be followed when creating new content.

.. grid:: 1 1 2 2
    :gutter: 2
    :padding: 2
    :margin: 2

    .. grid-item-card:: **TUTORIALS**
       :link: ref_guidelines_tutorials
       :link-type: ref
       :class-title: sd-text-center sd-bg-light
       :class-header: sd-text-center

       Learning oriented
       ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

       **Function:**  Teach how to get started and use PYDPF-core step by step

>        They are designed to teach how to perform a task and understand the underlying concepts,
>        providing detailed explanations at each stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       They are designed to teach how to perform a task and understand the underlying concepts,
       providing detailed explanations at each stage. They are feature-oriented.
```

Author: ```suggestion
       They are designed to teach how to perform a task and understand the underlying concepts,
       providing detailed explanations at each stage. The task is built around the application of specific features.
```

       +++
       .. rubric:: Guidelines

       Here you find guidelines and templates to write new tutorials.

    .. grid-item-card:: **EXAMPLES**
       :link: ref
       :link-type: ref
       :class-title: sd-text-center sd-bg-light
       :class-header: sd-text-center

       Use-cases oriented
       ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

       **Function:**  Show how to solve specifics key problems

>        They showcase specific key problems and use-cases. They are more advanced than
>        tutorials and assume some knowledge on PyDPF-Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       They showcase specific key problems and are use-case oriented. They are more advanced than
       tutorials as they present end-to-end engineering workflows and assume basic knowledge of PyDPF-Core.
```

Author: ```suggestion
       They showcase specific key problems and use-cases. They are more advanced than
       tutorials as they present end-to-end engineering workflows and assume basic knowledge of PyDPF-Core.
```

       +++
       .. rubric:: Guidelines

       Here you find guidelines and templates to write new examples.

    .. grid-item-card:: **CONCEPTS**
       :link: ref
       :link-type: ref
       :class-title: sd-text-center sd-bg-light
       :class-header: sd-text-center

       Understanding oriented
       ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

>        **Function:**  Provide useful background explanation on PyDPF-Core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       **Function:**  Provide useful theoretical explanations for PyDPF-Core
```

>        They discuss and explain key topics and concepts providing enabling the reader to understand our
>        tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       They discuss and explain key DPF principles and concepts, enabling the reader to understand the spirit of the underlying tool.
```

       +++
       .. rubric:: Guidelines

       Here you find guidelines and templates to write more concepts.

    .. grid-item-card:: **API REFERENCE**
       :link: ref
       :link-type: ref
       :class-title: sd-text-center sd-bg-light
       :class-header: sd-text-center

       Informing oriented
       ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

       **Function:** Describe PyDPF-Core APIs

>        They contain technical reference on how PyDPF-Core works and how to use it but assume that you have
>        a basic understanding of key concepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       They contain technical reference on how PyDPF-Core works and how to use it but assume basic understanding of key DPF concepts. It is generated automatically from the source code.
```

       +++
       .. rubric:: Guidelines

       Here you find guidelines and templates to improve the API reference.

View the documentation
----------------------

Documentation for the latest stable release of PyDPF-Core is hosted at
`PyDPF-Core Documentation <https://dpf.docs.pyansys.com/>`_.

In the upper right corner of the documentation's title bar, there is an option
for switching from viewing the documentation for the latest stable release
to viewing the documentation for the development version or previously

> released versions.

Reviewer: @luisaFelixSalles no, here we need to explain how to generate the documentation locally.
We will most likely have a dedicated page in the `Getting Started`, and the process for easily generating the documentation is being worked on right now, so it is not ready.
We could explain how to build it locally as of today, but that is not the point of this PR.

.. _ref_write_doc:

=============
Documentation
=============

> Writing good documentation for a GitHub repository is crucial to ensure that

Reviewer: Again, this is defined in the PyAnsys developer documentation (see [here](https://dev.docs.pyansys.com/doc-style/index.html))

   the documentation and be responsive to their suggestions and questions.

To improve the documentation you need to:

- Start by `cloning the repository <Clone the repository>`_;
- Follow the `guidelines <Guide Lines>`_ to the corresponding documentation part you want to develop;
- Check the new documentation by `viewing the documentaion <View the documentation>`_

Clone the repository
--------------------
Clone and install the latest version of PyDPF-Core in
development mode by running this code:

.. code::

    git clone https://github.com/ansys/pydpf-core
    cd pydpf-core
    pip install -e .

Guidelines
----------

Our documentation tries to follow a structure principle that respects four different functions of the documentation
that fulfils the possible needs of people working with our tool at different times, in different circumstances.

Here is an overview of how our documentation is organized to help you know where you should include your contributions.
Each section has their own guidelines that must be followed when creating new content.

.. grid:: 1 1 2 2
    :gutter: 2
    :padding: 2
    :margin: 2

    .. grid-item-card:: **TUTORIALS**

>        :link: ref_guide_lines_tutorials

Author: ```suggestion
       :link: ref_guidelines_tutorials
```
